# Hangman!
#### Video Demo:  <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v%253DgmI-jm09gXg>
#### Description: see below
# Name: Roy Hsu
# Location: Seattle, WA, USA
# Details of code:

> Even from a young age, I had an interest in video games, not only in how they played and the experiences that come with them, but also in how they worked behind-the scenes. Therefore, for my project, I wanted to write a script that not only nods to my passion for video games, but also used various concepts and skills that we learned in CS50. I chose hangman in particular partly because of a nostalgic nod to my childhood, and also because I anticipated that there were many concepts I could incorporate into writing this game.

> To begin, I mapped a flowchart of what my codes would look like. In general, the code would use the random module to randomly choose a word from a preset list of vocabularies. Then, the codes would use the length of that word to create underscores matching the number of the word's letters. Then, the program would take in the player's input, check if that input matches any of the characters in the random word that is chosen. If it does, output that character's placement within the word, but return all other hidden characters as underscores. This was the most challenging section of the program for me to write, in part because it included a complex series of concepts to combine into lines of code. In short, I discovered the best way to do this was to compare the user's input again each letter of the answer using a for-loop. Inside this for-loop, if that input letter matches the letter position of a word, then, I would replace just that letter from the underscores, surrounded by underscores in the beginning to -1 position of the correctly guessed letter, and from the +1 position to the correct guessed letter to the end of the length of the word. If the guess is incorrect, however, deduct one life from their attempts (the user is given five wrong attempts total).

> In addition to the backbone of the codes described above, I implemented messages that I'd guess that the users would run into. I anticipated that the user would accidentally enter a non-alphabet character or type more than one letter into the input, therefore, I combined both of these possible errors into a TypeError that reinstructs the user to only enter single alphabets. Moreover, the user is not expected to remember which letters they have entered, therefore I initialized an empty list in the beginning of the codes to add the user's inputs into. In addition, if the user enters a letter that was previously used, a while loop implemented in the codes enables the program to detect and prompt the user for another letter. The sys.exit strategy was used to exit the program at the end of the game.

> For the pytest file, I wanted to make sure all my conditional statements behaved the way they are intended, so therefore I used three tests. The first tests that the random module works as intended, and that it chooses the words from the list of vocabs given. The second test asserts that with the chosen word, the output of the underscores to enable the user to guess the word is at the correct length as the answer vocabulary. The final test asserts that a TypeError will be raised if anything other than a single letter is entered.

> This was such a fun class, and a wonderful project to finish out the course. I want to thank Dr. David Malan and the staff at CS50 for enabling so many of us to learn this language, and for empowering us with such useful knowledge to use in the real world. I am a much more confident coder now that I have taken this course. My sincere Thanks!
